# CS-370
A repository of my final project for CS 370: Current/Emerging Trends in CS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Project Details
### Description
This project features a pirate agent searching through a maze for lost treasure. The neural engine features a Deep-Q learning algorithm that allows the pirate to learn proper routes through the maze and succeed in two ways: solve the maze and obtain the treasure. A pirate is nothing without his booty.
### Give and Take
Most of the code was given to me for the project's completion. Everything outside of the Deep-Q algorithm section is given code. Where I scripted things is within that Deep-Q algorithm section. Replay experience is used as a sort of data set in the algorithm to allow the pirate agent to learn from past experiences and make decisions based on these past expereinces. The algorithm is purposed to allow the pirate to learn proper routes through the maze in an effort to solve it and obtain the treasure. A pirate is nothing without his booty.
### Deep-Q Learning
The Deep-Q reinforcement learning algorithm marks positive rewards and negative rewards for the pirate depending on if he gets closer to the treasure, finds the treasure, solves the maze, or takes wrong turn after wrong turn because of enjoying too much rum (though the rum is not a reward factor in this version of the project, unfortunately). A pirate is nothing without his rum. Or booty.
## Life as a Computer Scientist
### Importance of CS
Computer scientists solve some of life's most pressing questions: can I ask my coffee maker for extra decaf this time? Will my lights turn on as I enter my room? Will I find this darn treasure or keep circling eternally? I make light, of course, but on a more serious note: computer scientists develop software, hardware, programs, or systems that benefit all walks of life, all professions in the world, and subsequently all humans that exist. Today's world is ever-more dependent on technology to operate and, seemingly, to keep rotating. Be it a small project update or a large, complex, organization-defining system implementation, computer scientists' work is so significant and immensely matters to the world. Without their work, technology would suffer, humans would suffer, and budding computer scientists like myself would honestly be lost without an inspiring, passionate route to follow.
### Approaches
I approach each problem as a computer scientist with a few short, simple, burning questions: what, why, who, and how? What am I developing? Why is it important? Who will it benefit and who will try to use it nefariously? How the heck will I get this done? Each question burns its own flame and fuels a different aspect of my coding and my learning. It also motivates me to make sure the work I output is my top notch work — the best it can be so it can service others in the best way it can. I remind myself that I am not doing this work solely for myself; in fact, a certain project I may never benefit from the final rendition as I may never use it. It's others that motivate me to properly and successfully code.
### Ethically Speaking...
Because of my service to others in this field, I take on the weight of ethical concerns and always do my best to keep them at the forefront of my mind when developing. Technology is a wonderful thing, but in the wrong hands can be a devastating tool for destruction. My ethical responsiblities — as well as those of all computer scientists, professional and budding — are vast. The end user is trusting a piece of software, hardware, program, or system not only to work but also to keep their data safe. I am, arguably, in control of that from the get-go before they even use the system. Should I code haphazardly without intent to protect data privacy, then the user is at risk before even touching the end result of my project. If my encryption methods are lackluster, people's lives may be ruined because a hacker was successful in their brute-force attempts. Any project that affects the user — so, any project — must receive my proper ethical attention.
